U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Ann Arbor, Michigan
 TA Scope
From June through August 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory provided technical support to the City of Ann Arbor to inform the city’s geothermal planning and deployment efforts. Specifically, the expert team reviewed existing city efforts and data to develop a feasibility study outline that includes:
City-wide prefeasibility screening assessment  
Local detailed feasibility assessment
Siting consideration assessment  
Legal considerations
Technoeconomic study
This roadmap is helping the city make decisions about how to prioritize and right-size networked geothermal projects, which will form the basis for a request for proposals (RFP) to hire a consultant to carry out the planning work. The roadmap is organized to help the city make go, no-go decisions at each step of the planning process.  
 Impact
The technical assistance and engagement with experts were key to informing the design of an upcoming geothermal RFP. A city representative said, “A very belated thank you! We are really close to releasing our owner’s agent and geothermal design RFP and will definitely keep you posted. Your help has been instrumental, and I just wanted to say THANK YOU! It’s been a real pleasure, and I can’t wait to work with you again soon.”
 Background
Ann Arbor is a city of approximately 122,000 people located in southeast Michigan. The city and its residents are leaders in sustainability and climate action. Their A2ZERO Climate Action Plan outlines their just transition pathway to community-wide carbon neutrality by 2030. With equity as a focus, they are implementing strategies to improve home energy efficiency and electrify appliances. Toward this, the city wanted to explore community geothermal heating and cooling to serve a variety of building types including rental and affordable housing. The city applied to the U.S. Department of Energy’s Geothermal Heating and Cooling Design and Deployment program and garnered the support of city council to pursue these projects, but they need to understand the concept’s feasibility in order to make a “go, no-go” decision.
 Expert Match Team
Chrissy Scarpitti 
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL 
Matt Mitchell 
Engineering Researcher, Geothermal Expert, NREL 
Faith Smith 
Markets and Policy Analyst, Geothermal Regulatory and Permitting Expert, NREL 
Sika Gadzanku 
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NRE
 Community Team
Missy Stults 
Director, Office of Sustainability & Innovation 
Joe Lage 
Energy Coordinator, Office of Sustainability & Innovation  
