U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
 Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

DC Infrastructure Academy
 TA Scope
From March through July 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided technical input on industry best practices around the solar workforce, including research on the solar industry workforce. NREL compiled research and industry best practices around recruiting for the solar jobs of interest, successful apprenticeship programs, and case studies of other industry groups who have successful solar workforce programs. This report looked at research around general strategies as well as specific strategies for targeting women. NREL created a memo of the solar industry workforce research and presented the findings to the Washington, D.C., Infrastructure Academy (DCIA) team. NREL also facilitated discussion between DCIA and other solar workforce groups who are working on similar types of efforts to share best practices and create a peer network.
 Impact
The technical assistance and engagement with experts will inform future programs and research that are being discussed around workforce development and opportunities for women of color in clean energy. 
 Background
DCIA is interested in urban sustainability and the solar workforce. DCIA was experiencing challenges recruiting for renewable energy jobs. DCIA wanted to know what they might be missing in their approach to attract the right people for the solar workforce and careers in solar. This included how to package the opportunity to make it more attractive to workers, connecting trainees to apprenticeships, information about novel or current urban sustainability efforts, and case studies on what other communities have done to connect people to the solar industry. They were interested in research on jobs in solar installation, photovoltaics design, and solar sales. DCIA would like suggestions for a general population as well as specific approaches for targeting women to the solar industry.  
 Expert Match Team
Alexandra Kramer
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Sika Gadzanku
Researcher, C2C Expert Match Program Lead, NREL
 Community Team
Theresa Mason Ford
Solar Workforce Development Professional
