U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Barrio Carite, Puerto Rico
 TA Scope
During the month of April 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) provided technical support to Finca Caleli in the following ways:
Light touch consultation calls with microgrid subject matter experts (SMEs) Bharat Solanki and Ben Olis
References to another microgrid project on-island and partnership between ORNL and University of Puerto Rico, Mayaguez.
 Impact
The applicant better understands the range of resilience solutions, the required partnerships, and the necessary data to plan a microgrid project. Hopefully the applicant will be better equipped to form a project team and scope that has broader community impact if and when they apply to future U.S. Department of Energy technical assistance programs.
 
 Background
Barrio Carite is the largest community in Guayama County, Puerto Rico. Impacted by Hurricanes Irma, Maria, and Fiona, this community has not seen much recovery since Maria. According to the applicant, many homes still have Federal Emergency Management Agency blue tarp roofs. Residents are dependent on the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority legacy system for their power and water during disruptions that disable pumping stations. This remote community lies in the central mountains running through the middle of the island. Power interruptions are frequent. Citizens use diesel and gas generators to power their homes. The applicant (Kevin Shockey) is the owner of a farm (Finca Caleli) who is interested in a resilience project that could potentially benefit the broader community. The C2C Community Lead matched Kevin with microgrid SMEs at NREL and ORNL for a few light touch consultation calls. Ultimately, the applicant was encouraged to re-apply to Expert Match when they had a more concrete concept with more buy-in from community partners and neighbors.

 Expert Match Team
Chrissy Scarpitti
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Ben Olis
Microgrid Expert, ORNL 
Bharat Solanki
Microgrid Expert, NREL
Sika Gadzanku
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NREL
 Community Team
Kevin Shockey
Owner Finca Caleli






	