 U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Phoenix, Arizona
 TA Scope
From April through October 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided technical input on the best practices for the utility-scale procurement process including approaching, developing, and completing utility-scale solar procurement. Activities in this work included determining the best procurement approach, developing guidance on a procurement plan for Phoenix, and providing a presentation on the pros, cons, and process of entering a virtual power purchase agreement. 
 
 Impact
The city is also participating in the C2C June 2024 Procurement peer-learning cohort. This work will inform Phoenix’s path forward to procuring large-scale solar to meet their 2030 goals. 
 
 Background
The City of Phoenix wanted to understand what opportunities are available to develop utility-scale solar on city land in support of their goal to meet 100% of city operations with clean energy by 2030. Physical power purchase agreements are not allowed in Arizona, so they want to understand opportunities to utilize city-owned land and financial models. Initially, NREL thought this might be a high-level road mapping activity; assuming the city had already done its emissions accounting, NREL could identify property and ownership scenarios to meet their target. The participation of the City of Phoenix in utility-scale renewable energy projects would be crucial to achieving its energy goals. The utilization of land owned by the city, location, utility territory, and financial model, among other considerations, would be some of the upcoming decision points the City of Phoenix would need assistance with.  

 Expert Match Team
Alexandra Kramer
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Sika Gadzanku
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NREL
Sushmita Jena
Researcher, Procurement Expert, NREL
 Community Team
Carlos Aguiar Hernandez
Energy Manager








