U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Bealsville, Florida 
 TA Scope
From July 2023 to January 2024, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided technical support to the Black Farmers’ Collaborative in Bealsville, Florida, to inform the design of a greenhouse and aquaponics structure intended to support local farmers. Specifically, the expert team provided support in the following areas: 
Validation of energy production for multiple designs and how to maximize energy production
Considerations on solar and buildings variables to take to an engineer/designer
Discussions regarding the potential for Florida A&M University to have students work on the project as part of their coursework/capstone.
 Impact
The technical assistance and engagement with experts were key to informing the design of the Qube2. A community member said, “Now the community understands green tech and solar-related endeavors are within reach of them and projects they can engage in. Connection is available with expertise. This is huge. Now we don’t have to worry about being taking advantage of by folks knocking on the doors—now we have government resources and experts that they can rely upon. We are currently making formal proposals to churches regarding solar on houses of worship. And we envision a meeting within the next three weeks with leaders with 300 churches regionally. We are going to propose to them on how they can work together to implement solar on these houses of worship. Money will be used to develop affordable housing projects.”
    
       


Background
Bealsville is a thriving, agricultural community in Hillsborough County, Florida. The community has several farming families that are interested in (1) potential opportunities at the intersection of farming and renewable energy and (2) broader clean energy opportunities. Bealsville farmers are considering a clean energy solution using agrivoltaics to make their farms more commercially competitive. Despite this excitement, the community is facing significant challenges in their goal of transitioning to clean energy, such as lack of knowledge and resources to acquire and utilize clean energy technologies, including a lack of economic and financial capacity. The Black Farmers’ Collaborative applied to C2C to receive technical assistance and expert guidance on the design of a greenhouse and aquaponics structure that serves as a self-contained greenhouse and a nighttime grow system all set within a conventional “row crop” farming space. Referred to as Qube2, the structure also would include a lighting system on the underside of the winged solar array. The baseline design will enable farmers to scale farms of different sizes (1‒30 acres) and the available greenhouse can be used year-round by multiple farmers through collaboration and agreements. The design facilitates crop rotation with different heights/needs throughout the year, such as greens, peas, berries, etc., and the objective is to maximize produce yields using a designed greenhouse. The Black Farmers’ Collaborative needed support understanding the potential benefits and challenges around Qube2 and if there were alternative designs to consider.
 Expert Match Team
Dana-Marie Thomas, Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Jordan Macknick, Researcher, Agrivoltaics Expert, NREL
Brittany Staie, Researcher, Agrivoltaics Expert, NREL
Shanti Pless, Researcher, Buildings Expert, NREL
 Community Team
Reverend Jerry Nealy, Founder, President, and CEO, Black Farmers’ Collaborative Inc.
David Carmena, CEO, Carmena Enterprises
Dale Wesson, Dean, College of Agriculture & Food Sciences, Florida A&M University
