U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Williston, Vermont
 TA Scope
From July through December 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Argonne National Laboratory (Argonne), and Vermont Clean Cities provided technical support to the Town of Williston to inform their electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure development. Specifically, the expert team provided the town with the following deliverables:
NREL, Argonne, and Vermont Clean Cities Coalition provided technical input on considerations for siting and procuring public EV chargers. Clean Cities identified the funding opportunities that could support Williston’s EV supply equipment procurement efforts, including EV grant funding from the Vermont state government
NREL provided technical input on considerations for electrifying the municipal fleet. Experts shared best practices and guidance on available vehicle options based on intended use and workforce considerations
Vermont Clean Cities engaged with stakeholders, including first responders and municipal government employees, regarding charging infrastructure and municipal fleet electrification.  
 Impact
The technical assistance and engagement with experts were key to informing the roll out of the EV infrastructure. A city representative said, “[We] have a clearer idea of the characteristics of different electric vehicles and advantages/disadvantages of each, which will help make an informed decision.” 
 Background
The Town of Williston in Chittenden County, Vermont, has a population of 10,000. It is one of the fastest-growing suburbs in Burlington and the broader state. The community and energy development planner who applied for technical assistance on behalf of the community works with the town energy committee to further the town’s energy goals. The town is interested in clean mobility options, with an initial interest in providing EV charging infrastructure across the town. The town’s utility is Green Mountain Power, which has been very supportive of its various clean energy efforts. Williston applied to Expert Match to obtain technical expertise to inform its EV public charging infrastructure plan as well as its effort to electrify its municipal fleet. The town was interested in identifying and prioritizing potential locations and gaining an understanding of the advantages and tradeoffs across different vendor and service options.  

 Expert Match Team
Sika Gadzanku 
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NREL
Sophia Garcia-George
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Charbel Mansour
Mobility Sciences Expert, Argonne National Laboratory
Theodore Bohn
Mobility Sciences Expert, Argonne National Laboratory
Peggy O’Neil-Vivanco
Director, Vermont Clean Cities
 Community Team
Melinda Scott
Energy & Community Development Planner
