U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Niagara, New York
 TA Scope
From July 2023 through February 2024, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided technical support to Niagara County, New York, to inform a strategic decision framework focused on electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE). Specifically, the expert team completed the following:
Provided technical expertise to county staff to outline different pathways to achieve electric vehicle (EV)-related objectives through EVSE deployments, such as delineating charging needs/impacts between rural and urban areas; assessing the feasibility, costs, and benefits of EVSE deployments at existing facilities and parking lots; and identifying project partners and funding opportunities to help fund EVSE deployments across the county.
The expert team also ran a variety of EV adoption scenarios to determine the number of charging stations needed, the types of charging stations to improve performance and lower costs, and a general spatial distribution of EVSE using the following tools: 
EVI-Pro Lite 
Simplified version of NREL’s EVI-Pro model that can be run easily from a web browser. Expansion planned for 2023‒2024 that would add significant capabilities and increased resolution.
EVI-Equity™ 
Model to evaluate equitable planning for EV charging infrastructure as well as EV adoption.
 Impact
Provided Niagara County with a strategic decision framework focused on EVSE that is cost effective, equitable, and promotes greater adoption of EVs.

 Background
Niagara County is located in New York with a population of roughly 215,000. The county was awarded $81,000 to address energy efficiency and carbon reduction strategies. The county applied to C2C looking for assistance to create a strategic decision framework focused on EVSE that is cost-effective, equitable, and promotes greater adoption of EVs. 

 Expert Match Team
Sika Gadzanku
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, Community Lead, NREL
Sophia Garcia-George
Graduate Researcher, Secondary Community Lead, NREL
Eric Wood
Mobility Sciences Researcher, NREL
Andrew Duvall
Mobility Sciences Researcher, NREL
Dong-Yeon Lee
Mobility Equity Researcher, NREL
 Community Team
Savannah Betkowski
Environmental Analyst, Niagara County Department of Public Works
Dawn Timm
Environmental Analyst, Niagara County Department of Public Works







