U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Highland Park, Michigan
 TA Scope
From April through July 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided technical assistance to the City of Highland Park, Michigan, to support the city’s clean energy development policies. NREL conducted content analysis, exploring the city’s existing zoning code for opportunities to create a more enabling environment for adopting renewable energy, resilience, and electrification technologies. Topics explored include provisions for electric vehicle (EV) parking requirements in new development; standards for EV charging stations, signage, and striping; and permitting and review processes for EV charging stations, solar photovoltaics and solar thermal, solar streetlights, geothermal heat pumps, battery electric storage systems, microgrids, and agrivoltaics.
 Impact
The technical assistance team provided a light review of targeted municipal code sections with considerations for strengthening them, drawing from regional best practice literature. It provided examples of model code language from reliable sources and other communities. The team also generated a list of policy gaps and opportunities the city could explore to promote clean energy development with clear standards and guidelines.
 Background
The City of Highland Park—known as the “birthplace of the Model T”—is a resilient community, despite economic collapse, redlining, and historic disinvestment in public infrastructure. This has led to low incomes, racial segregation, housing and utility burdens, and environmental justice issues. Despite economic collapse, a coalition of community members, activists, and city representatives envision a clean, efficient, and resilient energy future for all Highland Parkers while improving energy affordability, increasing community climate resilience, empowering the local economy, and improving the health and wellness of residents. They have been working toward these goals with NREL through Communities LEAP (Local Energy Action Program) since June 2022. The coalition realizes that to transition to a more affordable and clean energy system, policies, regulations, and processes must be in place, and in alignment, to create an enabling environment. The city’s contracted engineer applied to Expert Match to understand options to improve their zoning code such that clean energy technologies may be permitted, procured, and implemented with consistency, thoughtfulness, and speed. 

 Expert Match Team
Chrissy Scarpitti
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Megan Day
Energy Planner, Local Policy Analysis Expert, NREL
Sika Gadzanku
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NREL
 Community Team
Eric Geerlings
Renewable Energy Project Manager, Metro Consulting Associates







