U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Santa Cruz, California
 TA Scope
From June through November 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided literature review, content review, and analysis to the City of Santa Cruz’s sustainability and climate action manager. The technical assistance provided included data collection and review, advice on planning approaches and scope boundaries, recommended methods of analysis and equitable engagement, and two seven-page scope of work documents. The documents describe the scope of work for a Municipal Decarbonization Plan and an Affordable Housing Decarbonization Plan, to be completed by a consultant in the future. The technical assistance team met continuously with the climate action manager throughout the process, delivering formal drafts at 30%, 60%, and 90% completion. 
 Impact
The city’s climate action manager developed a request for proposals based on the scope of work deliverables provided by NREL. They will also utilize the scope of work to apply for U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and state grants to pay for consulting services. The climate action manager stated the following about the C2C Expert Match program, “Other TA offerings are very general and high level. We need the type of TA that you are offering. It is filling a very crucial gap—it’s extremely tailored and focused; applicants don’t have to go through a crazy application process. All you need is to be able to commit to the time.” They also stated that they appreciated the “appropriate, smooth, and streamlined flow” as well as the structure of a proactive community lead who was flexible while ushering the process forward.   

 Background
Santa Cruz is a coastal city of between 50,000 and 100,000 residents approximately 40 miles south of San Jose, California. The area is served by Pacific Gas and Electric. In September 2022, the city adopted its 2030 Climate Action Plan that includes the development of a Municipal Decarbonization Plan and an Affordable Housing Decarbonization Plan as part of its near-term workplan. The city lacks the internal capacity and technical expertise to scope these projects and design/conduct an inclusive and equitable engagement process to support plan development. The city’s sustainability and climate action manager applied to C2C Expert Match to develop a scope of work that can be used to solicit consultant bids to carry out the work, including methods for equitable engagement. 

 Expert Match Team
Chrissy Scarpitti
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Nicole Rosner
Social Science and Anthropology Researcher, NREL
Lis Blanco
Post Doctoral Researcher, Science and Anthropology, NREL
Katelyn Stenger
Building Science and Modeling Researcher, NREL
Sika Gadzanku
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NREL
 Community Team
Tiffany Wise-West
Sustainability and Climate Action Manager, City Manager’s Office







