U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Salem, Oregon
 TA Scope
From August to December 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided a literature review, content review, and analysis to the City of Salem’s Public Works department. The technical assistance provided included example energy master plans from other communities, a light review of relevant existing plans and policies, advice on planning approaches, boundaries, and assumptions, a checklist of necessary data, recommended methods of analysis and equitable engagement, and an 11-page scope of work document describing a potential city-initiated planning process to be completed by a consultant in the future. The TA team met continuously with the Salem team throughout the process, delivering formal drafts at 30%, 60%, and 90%.
 Impact
Salem city staff developed a request for proposals from the scope of work deliverables provided by NREL. They will utilize DOE’s Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) funding to pay for consulting services and have hired a planning staff person to oversee the consultant’s implementation of the energy master planning process. Salem is also participating in C2C Cohorts for Municipal Building Decarbonization, where they will share these deliverables and their experience with other municipal governments. Although this C2C Expert Match offering exceeded the 60-hour limit, TA providers of C2C Cohorts may draw from these deliverables for topic area presentations and templates for developing requests for proposals with other Cohort participants.  

 Background
The city of Salem, Oregon, has a population of between 100,000 and 500,000 and is home to state government administrative offices. Salem has an ambitious goal to reduce Green House Gas (GHG) emissions 50% (baseline 2016) by 2035. Their Climate Action Plan (CAP) identifies specific strategies, including energy-specific actions, to reduce emissions. However, city staff do not have the capacity to develop a detailed energy master plan to guide municipal and citywide energy projects. To further advance the strategies of the CAP, the city requested technical assistance from NREL to produce a scope of work for an energy master plan that would form the basis for a project request for proposals, grant application, or other means to make energy-related decisions. 

 Expert Match Team
Chrissy Scarpitti
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Shanti Pless
Researcher, Buildings and Community Energy Planning Expert, NREL
Sika Gadzanku
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NREL
 Community Team
Heather Dimke
Climate Action, Plan Coordinator
Michael Slater
Commissioner, Salem Planning Commission 








	