U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Questa, New Mexico
 TA Scope
From October through November 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) planned and conducted a tour of its hydrogen production facilities, including a review of feasibility study, presentations on hydrogen safety, and Q&A sessions. On Nov. 16th, 2023, NREL hosted 13 Kit Carson Electric Cooperative (KCEC) board members, staff, and business partners. Chrissy Scarpitti hosted the tour and organized visits to NREL’s hydrogen facilities as well as presentations by hydrogen subject matter experts. Each session included Q&A with subject matter experts. 
Orientation – agenda, policies and procedures, DOE technical assistance programs, previous work
Flatirons Campus Tour – H2 Testbed, electrolyze, fuel cell, and ARIES grid integration
Lunch with Communities Local Energy Action Program management
South Table Mountain – Energy Systems Integration Facility – describing grid management control room, electrolyze and production facility, storage, and fueling station
Hydrogen Safety Presentation – a virtual presentation on hydrogen safety considerations.
 Impact
At the end of the day’s events, the board members reported feeling more comfortable with the technology’s market readiness and safety concerns and left with practical next steps for integrating safety best practices into their project planning.

 Background
Questa, New Mexico, is a rural mining and farming community within the KCEC service territory. When the nearby molybdenum mine closed in 2014, the community lost many jobs and suffered economic loss. Questa village leadership seeks to create a new and diverse economy powered by green electricity. Although KCEC delivers 100% renewable energy during the daytime, it seeks a long-duration energy storage solution to meet its members and state mandates to deliver 100% renewable energy throughout the nighttime. A coalition of Northern New Mexico organizations applied to the U.S. Department of Energy’s Communities Local Energy Action Program pilot in 2021 and worked with NREL staff from June 2022 to October 2023 to assess the feasibility of an electrolytic hydrogen production facility, located in Questa, which could deliver clean power to KCEC’s grid. KCEC realized that to make an educated decision about whether clean hydrogen is a good fit for the KCEC generation portfolio and, more generally, for the Questa community. Its board members needed to learn firsthand from technology that is already operational.
 Expert Match Team
Chrissy Scarpitti
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, NREL
Keith Wipke
Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Technologies LPM, NREL
Nate Mitchel
Hydrogen Project Manager, NREL
Greg Martin
Energy Systems Integration Facility Group Research Manager, NREL
Daniel Leighton
Hydrogen Expert, NREL
Nick Barillo
Hydrogen Safety Expert, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL)
Kumar Prabakar
Electrical Engineering Researcher, NREL
Sika Gadzanku
C2C Expert Match Program Manager, NREL
 Community Team
Luis Reyes Jr., CEO
Carmella Suazo, Assistant Manager
Brianna Trujillo, Executive Secretary
