U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
Clean Energy to Communities (C2C) Program
Summary of Technical Assistance (TA) Support

Nashville, Tennessee
 TA Scope
From April through December 2023, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) provided decision support analysis on near-term solar procurement options that included: 
Partnering with the major league’s ice hockey team, Nashville Predators, the team would develop on-site solar and sell the RECs to Metro Nashville. This project is in the very early stages and core decision-making is beyond the control of the Metro.
Developing solar projects based on recently completed solar feasibility assessment. A feasibility assessment was conducted for rooftop and carport PV across the municipal building stock. 
Executing a contract with Tennessee Valley Authority, its utility, on a 100 MW solar contract. Metro Nashville would offtake 100 MW of a planned 200 MW project. Discussions with Tennessee Valley Authority are advanced. 
 Impact
This technical assistance effort helped inform Metro Nashville’s upcoming decisions on procuring solar and decarbonizing energy use to meet Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) targets.  Background
Metro Nashville, the largest and most populous metro in the state of Tennessee, recently passed a renewable portfolio standard that requires that the local government use 100% tier-1 renewable energy by 2041 with annual renewable portfolio standard targets. Towards this requirement, the General Services Department, which oversees a sizable share of municipal buildings, is interested in identifying renewable energy options for the city and broader metro area. This department has decision-making power and manages 50% of overall municipal buildings. It recently completed an energy benchmarking study to help identify areas for energy efficiency potential as well as potential sites for rooftop photovoltaics. Additionally, the department has used $2 million from an energy efficiency revolving fund to support building upgrade efforts.

 Expert Match Team
Sika Gadzanku
Community Lead, Main Expert Match Point of Contact, and Overall Program Manager, NREL
Andy Walker
Senior Research Fellow, NREL
 Community Team
Jennifer Westerholm
General Services’ Division of Sustainability
Vasu Primlani
Sustainability Project Manager









	